# Writing with Style main points## The Rules1. Never use a metaphor, simile, or other figure of speech which you are used to seeing in print.2. Never use a long word where a short one will do.3. If it is possible to cut a word out, always cut it out.4. Never use the passive where you can use the active.5. Never use a foreign phrase, a scientific word, or a jargon word if you can think of an everyday English equivalent.6. Break any of these rules sooner than say anything outright barbarous.”## Chapter 1### Why are old words short and best? A brief history#### Use Anghlo-Saxon words {no need to add this to the json} (p11)* Use old and short words. They form the basics of the english language because English is an Anglo-Saxon language.* If you have the choice between an Anglo-Saxon word and its Latin or French equivalent, the former will give you a grounded and genuine feel, the latter an elevated, impersonal one. #### _Prefer_: (p13)buy to purchase or acquire <br>let to permit <br>about to approximately <br>enough to sufficient <br>give to donate <br>help to aid <br>get to obtain <br>make to manufacture <br>set up to establish <br>show to demonstrate <br>spending to expenditure <br>give up to relinquish <br>break to violate <br>hand out to distribute <br>present (noun) to gift <br>people to persons <br>rich to wealthy <br>but to however <br>after to following <br>### Nouns like a rock#### Use concrete nouns {no need to add this to the json} (p14-16)* Concrete nouns are "nouns which you can stub your toe on".* The worst Abstract nouns are nominalisations, boring nouns made from verbs or adjectives.* Concrete nouns make life easier for your readers, who can "see" what you are talking about as well as think about it.* Concrete nouns kee you focused on what you are actually writing about.* Sometimes an abstract word is the most strictly accurate one. But vivid writing often relies on a reader's common sense to fill in the picture.#### _Replace_: (p16)workforce with workers <br>compensation with pay <br>revenue with sales <br>high-net-worth individuals with rich people <br>inventory with goods, stocks, products on shelves <br>civil society with ngos (or perhaps community organisations) <br>conflict with fighting or war <br>the intelligence community with spies <br>academic community with scholars <br>the international community with nearly anything more accurate. <br>### Verbs that do something #### Use vivid verbs {no need to add this to the json} (p18)* Abstract nouns combine with empty verbs, creating boring sentences.* Vivid verbs are not particularly action-packed verbs, but all call a visual image to mind.* Especially lively verbs have another quality: they save the need for extra words by packing it with meaning.* Tangible subjects are clear in the mind. <br>In short, when a reader's mind begins to engage with a piece of writing, they are more likely to finish it and remember it. Maybe even act on it.#### _Replace_: (p19)demonstrates an unwillingness to with refuses to <br>manifests avoidance behaviour with avoids <br>the proliferation of abstractions exhibits a deadening tendency upon writing with empty words deaden writing <br>### Euphemisms and exaggeration#### Don't weaken a subject {add a list of weakened subjects with a message} (p19)* For example "abuses of power" instead of clearer descriptions like "fraud" or "bribery".#### _Replace_: (p19)homelessness with people sleeping rough <br>human-rights abuses with torture, murder, massacres, etc <br>civilian casualties or collateral damage with dead civilians <br>mortality with death <br>voting irregularities with vote-rigging <br>redundancies with lay-offs <br>the underprivileged with poor people, people struggling to pay the bills, etc <br>sexual assault with rape, groping, etc <br>kinetic action with battle <br>#### Don't exaggerate {no need to add this to the json}* Not every problem is a crisis, nor is every allegation of wrongdoing a scandal.### The use and abuse of jargon#### Avoid Pomposity {no need to add this to the json} (p20)* None of these improves on the older, more common word; nothing has been added except novelty.#### _Replace_: (p20)summits with meetings and conferences <br>granular with detailed <br>ideation with brainstorming <br>learnings with lessons <br>optics with appearances <br>#### Avoid Verbing {add this to the json by looking for verbs formed from nouns} (p20)* There is nothing inherently wrong with verbs formed from nouns. But you are more likely to annoy than to entertain with novel verbings.* Contact and Host are fine.#### _Replace_: (p21)to impact with to have an impact on <br>to access with to gain access to <br>to showcase <br>to source <br>to segue <br>to target <br>#### _Replace:_ (p21)to action <br>to gift <br>to interface <br>to whiteboard <br>#### Avoid Misdirection (p21)* Many jargon words seem designed to be obscure. Call these things what they are.#### _Replace_: (p21)synergy <br>issue <br>cyclical downturn <br>secular downturn <br>reallocation of resources <br>refocusing <br>downsizing <br>rightsizing <br>#### Teach specialist terms to the reader {recognise Jargon using SPACY} (p21)* Before using jargon, make sure to identify the terms you will re-use often enough.* Using familiar concept is often most effective.* When you will not be re-using terms frequently, rephrasing is your best strategy.#### Avoid using acronyms and initialisms {recognise Initials and acronmys using SPACY} (p22)* Instead, consider short forms and synonyms### The basket of deplorables#### Avoid words that are vogueish, self-important, vague or misleading (p22)#### _Replace_: (p22)address (as a transitive verb; try deal with, attend to) <br>aspirational <br>facilitate <br>famously (if it's famous, do you need to say so?) <br>high-profile <br>iconic <br>individual (as a synonym for person, unless there is no alternative) <br>inform (as a pretentious verb meaning to influence) <br>implode (since nature abhors a vacuum, few things actually implode) <br>key (as an adjective; especially key players, and do not say this decision is key) <br>major (try cutting it and seeing if context does the job instead) <br>move (as a synonym for decision, policy or change: The move served to highlight...) <br>narrative <br>paradigm <br>participate in (try take part in) <br>passionate <br>proactive <br>players (unless in sports and games) <br>prestigious (this means the author likes it) <br>reputational <br>savvy <br>segue <br>showcase (verb) <br>source (verb) <br>spikes (many rises so described turn out to have no descents) <br>stakeholders <br>supportive (try helpful) <br>surreal <br>trajectory (long word for course or path) <br>transformative <br>trigger (as a verb. Try cause, lead to, result in, etc.) <br>vision <br>wannabes <br>_A rule of thumb: was this word used two decades ago, and will it still be used that way two decades from now? If not, consider an alternative._## Chapter 2#### Use fresh, vivid metaphors (p26)* Fresh imagery is effective because it gives the reader two ways to process what you are saying: one logical and linguistic, and another visual.#### _Replace_: (p26)accident waiting to happen <br> chattering classes <br>deer in the headlights <br>eye-watering sums <br>fit for purpose <br>game-changer <br>going forward (in the sense of in future) <br>the green light <br>grinding to a halt <br>heavy lifting <br>honeymoon period <br>level playing-field <br>paradigm shift <br>perfect storm <br>poster child <br>pulling teeth <br>rack up (profits, etc) <br>ramping up <br>tipping point <br>too close to call <br>wake-up call <br>whopping bills <br> ### Metaphor magic #### Metaphors require care (p29)* Think thoroughly about the metaphor you are using, explain differences between the metaphor and the reality, and use metaphors only where necessary. * You could, for example, build up a metaphor through a whole piece of writing or refer to it regularly but don't over do it.### Borrowing specialist terms#### Crescendo (p30)A crescendo in music is a passage of increasing volume (it means "growing" in Italian), not the point of peak volume.#### Epicentre (p31)An epicentre is not the heart of an earthquake, but the spot on the Earth's surface above it (from epi-, Greek for "upon").#### Eye of the storm (p31)A hurricane is calm, not most intense, at the eye of the storm.#### Calculus (p31)Calculus deals with limits, and differentiation and integration of functions; for example, how position, velocity and acceleration are related. For those who know it, it is not just a fancy synonym for calculation, political or otherwise.#### Quantum Leap (p31)Quantum leap: not a big one. The idiom arises from physics, where the quanta involved are fixed multiples of a minuscule amount of energy. Use to describe a sudden change without intermediate stages, not a vast leap.#### Begging the question (p31)Begging the question: this phrase originated in classical philosophy, meaning to try to smuggle the conclusion you are trying to argue into an assumption. If someone says Illegal immigrants must be deported because they have broken the law, they are presupposing (or avoiding arguing) that the law is just or wise, and so begging the question. But if you merely mean that something raises or prompts the question, say that.#### Parsing (p31)In grammar, this means noting the details of function and form of the words in a sentence. Avoid using it as a fancy synonym for examining.#### Exponential growth (p31)Not just any rapid growth, but the kind implied by 2¹, 2², 2³, 2⁴, 2⁵, 2⁶, or 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64.#### Inflection point (p31) Borrowed from calculus to describe a point where a curve's concavity changes. This should not be used to indicate a mere change in direction.#### Marginal (p32)Poor-quality land at the edge of a field brought into cultivation is marginal. The cost of producing just one more widget in your factory is the marginal cost of production. The decreasing level of happiness you gain from making progressively more money is diminishing marginal utility. These are interesting and precise uses of marginal. As a synonym for slight or small, it is of marginal usefulness.### Variation, elegant and inelegant#### Use synonyms where they enhance your writing, not where they distract (p32)#### Use initialism occasionally (p32)* Especially if the initialism is not well known use more transparent phrasings.### Redundancy#### Space is at a premium (p33)* Where you can, remove words that do not add to the meaning of a sentence. For example when implied by context.#### _Replace_: (p33)now <br>currently <br>at present <br>ongoing <br>today <br> -> and similar are suggested by present tense, use them when contrasting with another time. <br> <br>real <br> -> unless you mean inflation <br> <br>there is/are <br> <br>has the ability to, the skills to <br> -> can <br> <br>absolute certainty (certainty) <br>pilotless drone (drone) <br>razed to the ground (razed) <br>track record (record) <br>wilderness area (wilderness) <br>policymaking process (policymaking) <br>large-scale (large or just big) <br>weather conditions (weather) <br>bought up (bought) <br>sold off (sold) <br>headed up by (headed by) <br>cut back, v (cut) <br>cutbacks, n (cuts) <br>end result (result) <br>for free (free) <br>from whence (whence) <br>final outcome (outcome) <br>nod your head (nod) <br>shrug your shoulders (shrug) <br>top priority (priority) <br>so-called "something" (use either quotation marks or so-called, not both) <br>major speech (nearly always just a speech) <br>role model (model) <br>past experience (experience) <br>lived experience (experience) <br>personal experience (experience) <br>empirical research (research, or a study) <br>safe haven (haven) <br>the fact that (that wherever possible, which is not always) <br>the industrial, agricultural or services sector (industry, agriculture, services) <br>located in (in) <br>pre-prepared (prepared; the pre- is right there already) <br>pre-planned (planned) <br>in close proximity to (close to) <br>### Respect and clarity#### Your first duty is the truth (p34)* You may say slaves and homeless people instead of enslaved people and people experiencing homelessness because renaming the group does little and the stigma attached to one name often attaches to the other. * Good writing about their lives, using ordinary language, does more to help than linguistic reshuffling does.#### Don't use nouns to describe human beings (p35)* Use adjectives that modify a noun.#### _Replace_: (p35)blacks <br>gays <br>jews <br>disabled <br> <br>community + adj <br> <br>deprived (poor) <br>disadvantaged (poor) <br>underprivileged (poor) <br> <br>developing (poor) <br>underdeveloped (poor) <br> <br>visually impaired (blind) <br>hearing impaired (deaf) <br> <br>schizophrenics <br>wheelchair-bound <br> <br>suffer (unless they told you; have) <br> <br> -> In any case, think twice about whether any disability is part of your story; if it isn't, leave it out. <br>## Chapter 3#### The full stop is the writer’s best friend. (p37)* Frequent resort to the dot has two effects. First it reduces the chances of getting tangled in syntax. Second, the reader's memory has time to rest.### Sentences within sentences#### Avoid Russian-Doll nesting of sentences. (p39)* Just because it's possible doesn't mean it's desirable.### Passive versus active#### Prefer the active (p40-41)* It is more direct, shorter and simpler. The active is the default, and so easier to process.* Sometimes the passive is better:  * To preserve focus. (When writing about Abraham Lincoln, you might say "Lincoln was shot" rather than "John Wilkes Booth shot Lincoln" unless you want to focus on the shooter.)  * To preserve flow. (If you have mentioned something in a previous sentence, it often makes sense to make it the subject of the next sentence, even if that requires a passive.)  * When the agent is unknown or unimportant.#### Try to keep the agent in the sentence (p40)* The agent is the doer. In the active voice subject and agent are the same. In the passive they are seperated.### Avoiding ambiguity#### Use functional words (p42)*  As you write, you should trim most words you can. But don’t trim more than you can. Those little, unlovely functional words help you avoid ambiguity.### The role of punctuation#### The Dash (p43)* Use the long (em) dash (—)* A good rule of thumb is no more than one dash or pair of dashes in a paragraph.#### The Hyphen (p43)* Use the hyphen (-) to join words that are closely related and function as a single concept.* Use the hyphen when two (or more) words are used to modify another word.### Other common confusions#### Whom is an object pronoun (p44)#### Who is a subject pronoun (p44)#### Prepositions (like between) are followed by object pronouns: me, you, him, her, us, them, whom. (p44)#### Singular subjects get a singular verb, with an -s at the end. Plural subjects get a verb with no -s. (p45)* Words ending in -ics for an academic discipline or the topic in the abstract are singular.* But when preceded by the, these are often plural* Other -ics that do not represent a eld of knowledge or abstract idea are ordinary plurals* Treat nouns as singular or plural depending on the focus of the sentence. For example, "Liverpool" are playing well, but "Liverpool" is loosing fans.#### Long subjects do not need to be followed by a comma. (p46)#### Items in a list should be in the same grammatical form. (p46)#### Co-ordinations involving Both/and and either/or require the items that follow to be parallel in form. (p46)#### Asides are set off by commas on both ends. (p47)#### Prefer the possessive form when followed by gerunds. (p47)#### When using the past subjunctive _to be_ is irregular (If I were). (p47)#### When using the present subjunctive in the third-person singular the verb loses its -s and _to be_ is irregular (So be it). (p47)#### Put modifiers where they are clearest and strongest. That is sometimes between to and its verb. (p49)#### You can end a sentence with a preposition. (p49)#### There is no reason to avoid putting conjunctions at the beginning of sentences. (p50)#### Avoid dangling modifiers, they cause for confusion and humorous effect and rarely server a purpose. (p50)#### You may use they as a singular pronoun, but sometimes it is better to pluralise. (p52)#### The ’s, known as the possessive, implies many kinds of relationships. (p52-53)#### In the past tense, use might. (p54)#### Use might for counterfactuals. (p54)#### Whose is the original genitive of what and later of which, as well as of who. (p55)* Rephrase with of which where you can, but not when this produces something clumsy.## Chapter 4## Chapter 5## Chapter 6### absent (p81)* Avoid using it as a verb. * Don't use it as a preposition. Its Americanism. ### acronym (p81)* A pronounceable word formed from the initials of other words. Not just a set of capitals.### actionable (p81)* This word means giving ground for a lawsuit. Do not use it to mean capable of being put into practice: prefer practical or practicable.### address (p82)* You address an audience but answer a question, discuss issues and solve problems. ### adjectives of proper nouns (p82)* If proper nouns have adjectives, use them.### adjective placement (p82)* Be careful when using adjectives for explanation, sometimes it can confuse the reader because the adjective indicates an alternative to the noun.* Example: China’s southern Guangdong province suggests that the place under discussion is the southern Guangdong province, not the northern one.### administration (p82)* Use of administration to mean a country’s political leadership should be reserved for those with presidential systems, especially America’s. * Parlimanetary systems have governments.### advertisement, ad (p83)* Avoid Advert.### aetiology (p83)* Aetiology is the science of causation, or an inquiry into something’s origins, and spelt thus in British English.### affect, effect (p83)* To affect means to influence or have an impact on someone or something, or in other words, produce an effect.* A different verb, to affect, means to put on a false show of something, as in to affect an upper-class accent.* Effect is also a verb, meaning to bring something about, as in the strike effected change within the company.* And affect is also a noun  meaning someone’s feelings and emotions, as in a flat affect.### affordable (p83)* By whom? You mean something is subsidised, inexpensive or merely cheap.### aggravate (p83)* Use it when you mean to worsen, not as a synonym for irritate or annoy.### aggression (p83)* Aggression is an unattractive quality, so do not call a keen salesman an aggressive one (unless his foot is in the door).### agree (p84)* Use with prepositions: things are agreed on, to or about, not just agreed.### alibi (p84)* An alibi is the fact of being elsewhere as a legal defence. It is not the same thing as a false explanation.### alternate, alternative (p84)* Alternate, as an adjective, means every other.* As a noun, it means a stand-in.* As an adjective, alternative means of two or more things, or possible as an alternative.### among (p84)* Not amongst.### an (p84)* An should be used before a word beginning with a vowel sound (an egg, an umbrella, an MP) or an h if the h is silent (an honorary degree).* But a European, a university.### analogue, homologue (p84)* An analogue is of similar function to something else. * A homologue corresponds in its nature to something else (as a bird’s wing and a seal’s flipper do to a human arm) because of common evolutionary origin.### anarchy (p84)* Anarchy means the complete absence of law or government. It may be harmonious or chaotic.### annus horribilis (p85)* This is used, in contrast to annus mirabilis, to describe an awful year.### anon (p85)* Anon means soon.### anticipate (p85)* Do not use anticipate for the simpler expect. Use anticipate to mean doing something ahead of something else.### apostasy, heresy, blasphemy (p85)* If you abandon your religion, you commit apostasy.* If that religion is the prevailing one in your community, and your beliefs are contrary to its orthodoxy, you commit heresy.* Speech deemed offensively irreverent of deities and cherished religious beliefs is blasphemy.### appeal (p85)* Appeal is intransitive (except in America), so appeal against decisions.### appraise, apprise (p85)* Appraise means set a price on.* Apprise means inform.### arrant, errant (p86)* Arrant means downright or unmitigated.* Errant meaning wandering, of-course or wide of the mark.### assassinate (p86)* Assassinate is, properly, the term used not just for any old killing, but for the murder of a prominent person, usually for a political purpose.### autarchy, autarky (p86)* Autarchy means absolute sovereignty.* Autarky means self-sufficiency.### avert, avoid, evade (p86)* To avert something means to head it off.* To avoid it means to keep away from it.* To evade it means to elude it or escape it artfully.### avocation (p86)* An avocation is a diversion from your ordinary employment, or even a hobby, not a synonym for vocation.### bail, bale (p86)* Bale in a hayfield.* Bail from jail.### -based (p86)* Use it for location.### beg the question (p87)* Do not use beg the question for raise the question or evade the answer. * To beg the question is to adopt an argument whose validity depends upon assuming the truth of the very conclusion the argument is designed to produce.### bellwether (p87)* It has nothing to do with prevailing winds.* A bellwether is the leading sheep of a flock### between (p87)* No distinction between between and among.### biannual, biennial, biweekly, bimonthly, bicentennial (p87)* Biannual can mean twice a year or once every two years. Avoid. * Since biennial also means once every two years, that is best avoided too. * Bimonthly and biweekly are similarly ambiguous.* Fortnightly is clearer.### black (p87)* In the black means in profit. It can be misunderstood so avoid.### blond, blonde (p88)* Use blonde to describe fair-haired women, and blond for everything else, including the hair of a blonde.### blooded, bloodied (p88)* Blooded can mean pedigreed, or also initiated.* Bloodied means wounded.### blue and red (p88)* Be careful in political context. American usage (red for Republican, blue for Democratic) is the opposite of almost everyone else’s, where red is left-wing.### bon vivant (p88)* Bon vivant, not bon viveur.### both...and (p88)* A preposition placed after both should be repeated after and. (to ... and to ...)### bowdlerisation (p88)* An insidious form of censorship. * Use the word, but avoid the practice of bowdlerisation in your own writing.### brokerage (p88)* Brokerage is what a stockbroking firm does, not what it is.### by contrast, in contrast (p89)* Use by contrast only when comparing one thing with another.* If  you are simply noting a difference, say in contrast.### Canute (p89)* King Canute did not command the tide to go back. He was demonstrating to his courtiers that he could not.* If using him as a byword, it should be for humility. Don’t imply he was surprised to get his feet wet.### career, careen (p89)* As a verb, career means to gallop or rush.* The noun career means the rush through life, or the part of it that passes as a job.* Careen means to turn a boat on its side (particularly to clean or repair its hull).### cartel (p89)* A cartel is a group that controls supply in order to drive up prices. Use it as such.### case (p89)* Often you can do without it.### Cassandra (p89)* Do not use Cassandra as a synonym for any prophet of doom. Her curse was that her predictions were always correct, but never believed.### catalyst (p90)* This is something that speeds up a chemical reaction while itself remaining unchanged. Do not confuse it with one of the agents.### celibacy, chastity, abstinence (p90)* Celibate originally meant unmarried.* Chaste meant not taking part in unlawful sex.* Times have rendered both words rare, and they are now often understood as abstinence. Use context to clarify.### centred (p90)* Centred on, not around or in.### challenge (p90)* No one has to face a change, difficulty, task or job.* Next time you face a challenge on the page, challenge yourself to find a more specific, less overused word.### charge (p90)* If you charge intransitively, do so as a bull, cavalry officer or the like, not as an accuser.### check, cheque, chequer (p90)* As a verb, check means bring to a halt or to ascertain the accuracy of something. * As a noun, it means, a stop or rebuff, or a position in chess, or a square, as on a tablecloth. * A cheque is an order for money. * A chequer is a pattern of different-coloured squares. So chequered means eventful or variegated, as in the euphemism of a chequered past.### cherry-pick (p91)* Use it if you must.* Note that to cherry-pick means to engage in careful rather than indiscriminate selection.### circumstances (p91)* Circumstances stand around a thing, so it is in, not under, them.### civil society (p91)* It can, however, be a useful term to describe collectively all non-commercial organisations between the family and the state. * Do not use it as a synonym for NGOs.### co- (p91)* The prefix co- is redundant in sentences where both parties are mentioned.### coiffed (p91)* Coiffed, not coiffured.### collectable (p91)* Since almost anything can be collected, collectable tells the reader little.* Use valuable, popular or in demand.### come up with (p91)* Try suggest, originate or produce.### community (p92)* Community is useful when referring to people actually acting in communion. A community (whether a town, ethnic group or religion)  may pull together after a tragedy, for example.* In other uses, the word is empty, or you may be implying a unity that doesn't exist.### compare to, compare with (p92)* A traditional rule has it that compared to is for a simple likeness and compared with is used to evaluate similarities and highlight differences too.* The distinction is worth observing but in some cases either would work.### compensation (p92)* Try to reserve compensation for amends, especially for a loss.### compound (p93)* Do not use compound where the more straightforward worsen or even just increase would do.### comprise (p93)* Comprise is contaminated. Originally it meant a whole comprises its parts, but now it is often used to mean the parts comprise the whole.* Consists of and is composed of are less likely to trip you up.### contemporary (p93)* Means at that same time, so when writing about the past, contemporary prices are not today’s.### continual, continuous (p93)* Continuous describes something uninterrupted. Continual admits of a break.### convince (p93)* Do not convince people to do something or to believe something. The verb you want is persuade.* The prime minister was persuaded \[by others\] to call a June election; he was convinced of the wisdom of doing so only after he had won### core (p94)* Like key, core is used too often as a trendy modifier.* Do not write This is the core problem.### coruscate (p94)* This means sparkle or throw off flashes of light.* Not devastate or lash (that’s excoriate) or reduce to wrinkles (that’s corrugate).* Neither does coruscating mean corrosive, bitter or burning (that’s caustic).### cost-effective (p94)* Cost-effective sounds authoritative, but does it mean good value, gives a big bang for the buck or just plain cheap? * If cheap, say cheap.### could (p94)* Could is useful as a variant of may or might.* But prefer may which is usually more precise.* Could both means had the chance to do sth and did sth.### crescendo (p94)* This is a passage of increasing loudness. Do not use as a synonym for peak or zenith, and therefore do not build to a crescendo.### crisis (p94)* A crisis is a decisive event or turning-point.* Not everything is a crisis.### critique (p95)* Prefer to offer a critique or similar rather than verbing critique, though to critique is permissible if alternatives do not work.* It is not the same as to criticise, which is to offer a negative appraisal rather than a thoughtful one.### current (p95)* Current can mean at that time, but it is also loosely used to mean relating to today.* To avoid confusion, use today’s prices, etc, when writing about the present.### data (p95)* Data was originally plural in English.* Use the plural when you are talking about collected observations.* But use the singular when you are speaking either about the concept (Data is more important than physical inventory) or the totality (the data  held by Google).### deal (p95)* Do not deal drugs, horses, weapons, etc; deal in them.### decimate (p96)* Use decimate to mean to destroy a significant proportion of something.* Use annihilate, wipe out or something else for utter destruction.### degrees (p96)* Universities give degrees. American high schools award diplomas.### deprecate, depreciate (p96)* To deprecate is to argue or plead against, and therefore to run down or belittle something. * To depreciate is to fall in value### different (p96)* Use different from, not the British alternative different to or the American  different than.### dilemma (p96)* Do not use for any old awkwardness.* A dilemma thus offers a choice of between alternatives with equally nasty consequences.### disconnect (p96)* This voguish nouning of the verb to disconnect implies that a connection made in the past is now severed, as in an interrupted call.* Replace total disconnect with no connection.### discreet, discrete (p97)* Discreet means circumspect or prudent.* Discrete means separate or distinct.### disinterested, uninterested (p97)* Disinterested means impartial. * Uninterested means bored.### Dived (p97)* For the past tense and past participle of dive, use dived, not dove.### down to (p97)* Down to earth not down to human rights. * Use caused by, attributable to, the responsibility of or explained by.### driver (p97)* Driver is a person who sits behind a steering wheel.* Try agent for a human. If speaking of a force, as in the key driver of growth in the fourth quarter, try source or cause.### due process (p97)* It comes in two forms, substantive due process, which relates to the duties of governments to act rationally and proportionally when doing anything that affects citizens’ rights, and procedural due process, which relates to the need for fair procedures.* If you use the expression, make sure it is clear what you mean by it. A preferable alternative may be legally, properly or in accordance with the law.### due to (p98)* Due to modifies a noun, because due is an adjective.* Now often used like an adverb, modifying a verb (It was cancelled due to rain), because of, on account of and owing to are better.### effectively, in effect, effectual (p98)* Use effectively to mean with effect, usually a positive effect.* If you mean in effect, say that. Not effectively.* Effectual means carried out with the intended effect.### elite (p98)* Once meaning a chosen group or the pick of the bunch, elite is now almost always used pejoratively.* But you should be more specific.### enclave, exclave (p98)* An enclave is a piece of territory entirely surrounded by foreign territory.* An exclave belongs to but is separated from another country.* Some are both, use depending on focus.### endemic, epidemic, pandemic (p98)* Endemic means prevalent or generally found in a place or population.* An epidemic means prevalent among a population at a particular time.* Pandemic is used for a global outbreak of disease like covid-19.### enormity (p99)* Enormity traditionally means a crime or monstrous wickedness.* For the great size of something, use magnitude.### environment (p99)* Often cuttable, as in the business environment, the work environment, etc. * Try to rephrase—conditions for business, at work, etc. Surroundings can sometimes do the job.### epicentre (p99)* Epicentre means that point on the surface (usually the Earth’s) above the centre of something below (usually an earthquake).* This can be extended metaphorically to mean the centre of some other great upheaval or disaster, but do not use it as a fancy synonym for centre.* The hypocentre, in contrast, is the place on the surface (usually of the Earth) below something above (usually an explosion).### eponymous (p99)* This is the adjective of eponym, which is the person or thing after which something is named.### ethnic and racial groups (p99)* In general, use the words that people would describe themselves with in ordinary conversation.For more information see here (new page p104 of pdf)### euthanasia, euthanise (p101)* Euthanasia is assisted dying, a better term, though euthanasia may be used for variation.* But avoid the verb euthanise.* Animals may be put to sleep. Humans are helped to die (or use a more specific description, as appropriate).### evangelical, evangelistic (p101)* Evangelical means pertaining to the Gospel and so, among Protestants, relating to a church that believes in the sole authority and inerrancy of the Bible.* Only a church with Evangelical in its name, or a member of such a church, should be given an initial capital; the rest are evangelical.### ex- (p101)* Ex- (and former): be careful. A communist ex-member has lost his seat; an ex-communist member has lost his party.### exception that proves the rule (p101)* This proverb derives from an old legal maxim: The exception confirms the rule in cases not excepted.* For example, in No parking on Sundays, the ban on Sundays implicitly confirms a rule allowing parking on other days.* Do not use this to mean the existence of an exception arms the validity of the rule.### execute (p101)* Execute means put to death by law.* Do not use it as a synonym for murder.* An extra-judicial execution is a contradiction in terms.### exhausting, exhaustive (p102)* One is tiring, the other thorough.### existential (p102)* Existential means of or pertaining to existence.* It is sometimes used in such phrases as existential threat or existential crisis, where the author wants it to mean a threat to the existence or purpose of sth.* Do not use to mean merely grave or serious.### experience (p102)* By all means accumulate experience, and even experiences, but avoid them in your prose in phrases like user experience, customer experience and dining experience.### factoid (p102)* This is originally something that is thought by many to be a fact, but is not in fact a fact.* The -oid suffix (“having the form of”) is the key* If you mean an amusing fact, say that. * If you mean an urban legend, that would be clearer than factoid.### fed up (p102)* Fed up with, not of. Ditto, bored.### fellow (p102)* Perfectly good as a stand-alone noun, but unnecessary before countrymen, classmates and other nouns that already imply fellow status.### feral (p102)* This word can mean brutish or uncultivated, but is best used of plants, animals, children, etc, that were once tamed or domesticated but have run wild.### ferment, foment (p103)* These are two unrelated words that can sometimes, as transitive verbs, be used interchangeably.* To ferment means to cause fermentation, to agitate, to excite—or indeed to foment, which means to foster, stimulate or instigate (trouble, usually).### fewer than, less than (p103)* Use fewer, not less, with individual items, which can usually be counted.for more information see different page 107 of pdf### fief (p103)* Fief, not fiefdom.### first, second, third (p103)* When enumerating your points use these, not firstly, secondly, thirdly.### flatline (p103)* Some use this verb to mean no longer growing, as in a curve going flat. Others use it to mean to die, as when an electrocardiogram reports no heartbeat.* These are very different things, good reason enough to avoid this verb (besides the fact that it is also a cliché).### flaunt, flout (p104)* Flaunt means display; flout means disdain.### fold (p104)* Use -fold only for increases, not decreases.### forego, forgo (p104)* Forgo means do without; it forgoes the e. * Forego means go before, as the spelling indicates.### forensic (p104)* Forensic means pertaining to courts of law or, more loosely, the application of science to legal issues.* Do not use forensic to mean merely very detailed.### former (ex-) (p104)* Ex- (and former): be careful. A communist ex-member has lost his seat; an ex-communist member has lost his party.### former and latter (p104)* Avoid the use of the former and the latter whenever possible. It causes the reader to stop and backtrack, a bad thing.### founder, flounder (p104)* If you flounder, you struggle clumsily or helplessly. * If you founder, you stumble (if you’re a horse), collapse (a building) or sink (a ship).### Frankenstein (p104)* But in case you refer to the novel, Frankenstein was not the monster but its creator.### free (p105)* Free is an adjective or an adverb, so no need to write for free: someone gets something free or for nothing.### fresh (p105)* Fresh is overused journalese for new or more. A few hundred fresh bodies are being recovered every day, reported The Economist improbably two months after a tsunami had struck. Use with care.### fulsome (p105)* This old word once meant just copious or wholehearted, usually preceding something like praise or tribute.*  But for centuries it has had the taint of immodest, exaggerated or insincere for many people. * Avoid, unless context makes absolutely clear which you mean.### gay (p105)* When describing someone’s sexuality, it is best to use the term they use for themselves: gay (adjective only; avoid as a noun); lesbian, bisexual or straight. * Gay does not refer just to men—hence gay marriage, gay pride.* Reserve homosexual for behaviours and tendencies, not people.### gender and sex (p105)* Gender is grammatical and, by now, behaviour.* Use sex when referring to the biology.(for more information see page 110 of pdf)### gentlemen’s agreement (p106)* Gentlemen’s agreement, not gentleman’s.### geography (p106)* Geography is the science of the Earth’s surface and those who live on it. * Do not use it to mean place.### get (p106)* Get is an adaptable verb, preferable to obtain or receive or other Latinisms.* But some uses are too breezy: do not get sacked or get promoted. People are sacked or are promoted.* You  get the chance to do something, but you do not get to do it.### girn, gurn (p106)* Use girn for complain, gurn for pull a face.### good in parts (p106)* Good in parts is what the curate said about an egg that was wholly bad. He was trying to be polite.### gourmet, gourmand (p107)* A gourmet is a connoisseur; a gourmand is a glutton.### governance, government (p107)* Governance has come to mean the system or structure of governing in general. * Government is the specific instance of this in particular places### grisly, gristly, grizzly, grizzling (p107)* Grisly is frightful. * Gristly is like school stew. * Grizzly, a kind of bear, is also an old word for grey, but grizzled is better for that purpose. * Grizzling is grumbling.### halve (p107)* Halve is a transitive verb, so deficits, for example, can double but should not halve. They must be halved or fall by half.### healthy (p107)* Overused (outside medicine and biology). If you think something is desirable or good, say so. If a company is experiencing good (though not spectacular) profits or growth, try robust, strong or impressive.### heave, heaved, hove (p107)* The past participle of heave is heaved. (The past-tense form hove is archaic, or nautical).* To hove is to swell, rise, loiter or linger, but is archaic. Use hover or float.### heresy (p107)* If you abandon your religion, you commit apostasy.* If that religion is the prevailing one in your community, and your beliefs are contrary to its orthodoxy, you commit heresy.* Speech deemed offensively irreverent of deities and cherished religious beliefs is blasphemy.### historic, historical (p107)* Historic is best reserved for objects, events, eras and so on that may come to be considered notable in history.* Historical should be used to mean relating to the past, or to the scholarly study of the past.### hoard, horde (p108)* A hoard is a stash of something valuable.* A horde is a crowd, often a disorderly one.* Few secreted treasures (hoards) are multitudes on the move (hordes).### Hobson’s choice (p108)* Hobson’s choice is not the lesser of two evils. It is take it or leave it, or no choice at all.### hoi polloi (p108)* Greek for “the many”. “Hoi” already means the, so classically minded readers see the hoi polloi as redundant. But Hoi polloi were waiting outside looks bizarre to many others. * A good reason to skip this phrase.* Try an alternative to the masses.### holistic (p108)* If you mean considering a person or subject as a whole, holistic is just about acceptable.* But if tempted to use it in other contexts, take a holistic approach to the English lexicon and see if something else will work. * If you merely mean wide-ranging, say that.### home (p108)* As a generic term, home can be usefully vague if some of them were flats or chalets. * If possible, though, be precise and write house or shack or castle: home is where the heart is.### home in (p108)* This phrase does not involve sharpening a knife, so it is not hone in on. * You home in on something, like a homing pigeon does.### homogeneous, homogenous (p109)* Homogeneous means of the same kind or nature, has five syllables and a second e, and is almost certainly the word you want.* Homogenous means similar because of common descent, and is a near synonym of homogenetic or homologous.### homosexual (p109)* Homosexual comes from the Greek word homos (same), not the Latin word homo (man). So it applies as much to women as to men.* But use it to refer to acts or attractions, not people, who may or may not consider themselves gay (qv).### hopefully (p109)* It is outmoded to object to the use of hopefully to mean it is hoped that.* In The Economist, however, we may well begin an article hopefully, but (even though it is not grammatically wrong) we do not write Hopefully, it will be finished by Wednesday. * Try With luck, if all goes well, it is hoped that...### hypothermia, hyperthermia (p109)* Hypothermia is what kills old folk in winter. * If you say it is hyperthermia, that means they have been carried off by heat stroke.### immanent, imminent (p109)* Immanent means pervading or inherent, and originates in theology.* You probably want imminent, which means threatening or impending.### immolate (p109)* Immolate means to sacrifice, usually but not necessarily by burning,  though this is what any reader will understand by self-immolation.### important (p110)* If something is important, say why and to whom. Use sparingly.### impracticable, impractical (p110)* If something is impracticable, it cannot be done. If it’s impractical, it is not worth trying to do it.### inchoate (p110)* Inchoate means not yet fully developed. It is not the same as incoherent or (despite the deceptively similar spelling) chaotic.### indicted (p110)* Be careful. Someone you are tempted to call an indicted war criminal may be acquitted, and in that case, legally no war criminal at all.* Prefer indicted for war crimes.### individual (p110)* Used occasionally, the noun individual can be a useful colloquial term for chap or bloke or guy.* Used indiscriminately for person or, in the plural, people, it becomes bureaucratic.### initial, initially (p110)* Prefer first, at first.### interesting (p111)* Like important (qv) and funny, interesting makes assumptions that may not be shared by the reader.* If something really is interesting, you probably do not need to say so.### investigations (p111)* Investigations of, not into.### ironically (p111)* It is often used today as "contradictory outcome of events involving mockery by fate or fortune." That's OK.* It should not be used to mean merely surprisingly or coincidentally.### Islam, Islamism, jihadist, mujahideen (p111)* Islamic means relating to Islam.* Islamism encompasses a wide range of views.* Avoid referring to Islamic State with the definite article.* Jihad is the Arabic word for striving. For modern Muslims, it may mean different things.* Someone engaged in jihad is a mujahid.(more information on page 116 of pdf)### issues (p112)* Do not use issue as a synonym for problem.### jejune (p112)* Jejune means insipid, unsatisfying, lacking in substance.### jib, gibe, gybe (p112)* Jib (noun): sail or boom of a crane * Jib (verb): to balk or shy * Gibe (noun): taunt * Gibe (verb): to scoff or flout * Gybe (verb): to alter course.* Don’t jibe.### judgment call (p113)* Prefer judgment or matter of judgment.### key (p113)* Do not, however, use it as a free-standing adjective, as in The choice of running-mate is key.### lag (p113)* If you lag transitively, you may be insulating a pipe or a loft.* But anything failing to keep up with a front-runner, rate of growth, fourth-quarter profit or whatever is lagging behind it.### lama, llama (p113)* Lama: priest. Llama: beast.### last (p113)* For most recent, as in the last issue of The Economist, prefer last week’s or the latest issue instead.* Last year, in 2023, means 2022.* If you mean the 12 months up to the time of writing, write the past year.* Last week is best avoided, prefer a date or recently.### latin names (p114)* When it is necessary to use a Latin name for animals, plants, etc, follow the standard practice.### latin phrases (p114)* It is generally best (and usually easy) to translate them.#### _Replace:_per capita with per personper annum with per year### lay, lie (p114)* to place something: I lay, I laid, I have laid* to recline: I lie, I lay, I have lain* to tell an untruth: I lie, I lied, I have lied### legacy (p114)* Legacy means a bequest (will) or outliving something's original purpose. * If you use legacy in one of these senses, make sure the meaning is clear, or nd another word.### leverage (p115)* If you cannot find a way of avoiding the word leverage, explain what it means.### LGBT+ (p115)* When referring to advocates of rights for lesbians, gay men, bisexuals, transgender people and other identities, you can use LGBT+ as an umbrella term.* Because LGBT + is a broad term, usually it is most accurate to refer to a specific group of people.### like, unlike (p115)* Like governs nouns and pronouns.* Many people use it to govern prepositions and verbs too, but in writing as is better.* Try to use as if or as though.* Such as introduces examples, like introduces resemblances, and the two overlap.### likely (p116)* Likely is still predominantly an adjective in British English. * Avoid adverbial constructions such as He will likely announce the date...### literally (p116)* Literally is still holding its ground meaning “not figuratively”. Do not write it was literally raining cats and dogs unless something very strange has happened.### loaded words (p116)* Certain words, in certain contexts come with assumptions that may not be universal: affordable (qv), important (qv), (in)appropriate, interesting (qv), matters (as in “This matters”), relevant, sustainable (qv). * If it is interesting or relevant, say why and to whom.### locate (p116)* Locate, in any of its forms, can usually be replaced.* find, place### logistics (p116)* The science of distribution of goods by road, rail and air.### luxurious, luxuriant (p117)* Luxurious means indulgently pleasurable. * Luxuriant means exuberant or profuse.### majority (p117)* A rule for majority and verb agreement:* When used in an abstract sense, it takes the singular; * when it is used to denote the elements making up the majority, it should be plural.### media (p117)* Prefer press if the context allows it. * If you have to use media, remember they are plural.### mendacious, mendicant (p117)* Mendacious means lying. Mendicant means a beggar or begging.### meta- (p117)* The prex meta-, from the Greek word for with, beyond or after, has long been used before the name of a science to designate a higher science of the same nature but dealing with ulterior problems.* Do not follow the trend of adding meta- to anything to lend it gravitas.### mete, meet (p118)* mete out punishment (to distribute)* meet a deadline (to reach)* meet a person (to encounter)### meter, metre, metrics (p118)* A meter is a gadget for measuring.* A metre is a unit of length.* Metrics is the theory of measurement or the study of metrical structures in verse.* Do not use metrics as a synonym for measures or statistics.### migrate (p118)* Birds, animals and people migrate, intransitively, from place to place.* copying computer files or bureaucrats relocating their offices, transitively move them.### military (p118)* Try to avoid military as a noun, writing the army or another service instead.* Be specific when saying "served in the military".### mitigate, militate (p118)* Mitigates mollifies, tempers or helps to excuse; militates tells (against).### momentarily (p118)* Use it to mean for a moment. If you want in a moment, use soon.### monopoly, monopsony (p118)* A monopolist is a sole seller; a sole buyer is a monopsonist.### moot (p119)* Moot, in British English, means arguable, doubtful or open to debate.* Americans use it to mean hypothetical, ie, of no practical significance.* Be clear, or simply reword.### mortar (p119)* If not a vessel in which herbs, etc, are pounded with a pestle, a mortar is a piece of artillery for throwing a shell, bomb or lifeline.* You are typically hit by a mortar shell, not a mortar.### move (p119)* Do not use the noun move if you mean decision, bid, deal, action or something more precise. * But use the verb move rather than relocate.### multiple (p119)* Do you mean a number of or several or many when you write there were multiple offers? If so, use one of those.### named after (p119)* Named after, not named for.### nauseate, nauseous (p119)* Write nauseating for sick-making.* Use either nauseous or (if there is any risk of ambiguity) nauseated for feeling sick.### noisome (p119)* Noisome means noxious, harmful or offensive to the eyes or nose—but not the ears: that is noisy.### none, neither, nor (p120)* Try to use none with a singular verb, especially when the sense indicates that each item is to be considered individually.* But when a group is considered as a group, the plural is acceptable.* Neither a nor b (or either) does take singular agreement, unless b is plural.* Nor should not be preceded by and. You may, however, start a sentence with it.### number (singular or plural) (p120)* The number is (staggering, unimpressive)..., where number is synonymous with a figure.* But A number are (opposed, upset).### one {as a personal pronoun} (p120)* Try to avoid one as a personal pronoun. You will often do instead.### only (p120)* Put only as close as you can to the words it qualifies, to avoid ambiguity:### onto (p120)* On and to should be run together when they are closely linked.* If, however, the sense of the sentence makes the on closer to the preceding word, or the to closer to the succeeding word, than they are to each other, keep them separate### ophthalmology, optometry, optics (p121)* Ophthalmology is the branch of medicine concerning the health of the eyes.* Optometry is the measurement of their refractive power, or of lenses, as when you get glasses.* Optics is the science of light. Do not use it to glamorise mere impressions or appearances.### overseas (p121)* Overseas should not be used to mean merely abroad or foreign.### oxymoron (p121)* An oxymoron is traditionally deliberate, for rhetorical effect.* For the unintentionally contrasting juxtaposition, try contradiction in terms.### palate, pallet, palette (p121)* Your palate is the roof of your mouth (metaphorically your capacity to appreciate food and drink).* A pallet is a mattress on which you may sleep or a wooden frame for use with fork-lift trucks.* Mix paints on a palette.### parse (p121)* Parse, meaning to describe a word’s part of speech, case, number, gender and so on, or to describe the structural relationships of a sentence.* Unless you really mean close linguistic analysis, choose a plainer word.### peer (p121)* A peer is not a contemporary, colleague or counterpart but an equal.### picaresque, picturesque (p122)* Picaresque means roguish or knavish, often in adventures and originally in the context of fiction.* Picturesque means pretty as (in) a picture.### populace (p122)* This term means the common people (hoi polloi, qv) to many. Use population if you mean everyone.### positive (p122)* Do not over-use where other words will do.### possessives {recognise it in the text I am using SPACY} (p122)* Use the possessive form consistently. Either a friend of John or friend of John’s, but do not mix.### possessives (comparing) {recognise it in the text I am using SPACY} (p122)* Take care to compare possessives with possessives. Let it make sense.### power, energy (p122)* Power refers to the rate at which energy is transferred. Typically measured in watts.\* Energy measures power applied over time, and so in these contexts is measured in watt-hours, megawatt-hours, etc### practicable, practical (p123)* Practicable means feasible. Practical means useful or handy.### pre- (p123)* Pre- is often unnecessary.* If it seems to be doing something useful, try making use of a word such as already or earlier.### precipitate, precipitous (p123)* Precipitate (adj) means rush, hasty or headlong.* Precipitous means sheer or like a precipice.### presently (p123)* Presently means soon in Britain and now in America. So use soon or now instead.### press, pressure, pressurise (p123)* Pressurise is what you want in an aircraft, but not in an argument or encounter where persuasion is being employed. The verb you want there is press (use pressure only as a noun).### prevaricate, procrastinate (p123)* Prevaricate means evade the truth; procrastinate means delay### process (p124)* Process is usually unnecessary. ### prodigal (p124)* If you are prodigal, that does not mean you are welcomed home, forgiven or taken back without recrimination.### profession (p124)* By convention, professions are those like law, medicine and accounting, which require of their members some degree of learning, usually tested in an examination, and are regulated by a responsible body.* Journalists and bankers are therefore not members of a profession. Try trade.### propaganda (p124)* Propaganda (which is singular) means a systematic effort to spread doctrine or opinions. It is not a synonym for lies.### protagonist (p124)* Protagonist means the chief actor or combatant. It can only be one person.### pry (p124)* Use prise, unless you mean peer or peep.### raise, raze (p125)* To raise means to lift. To raze means pretty much the opposite: to lay level (with the ground) or erase.* No need to say razed to the ground.### rebut, refute (p125)* Rebut means meet in argument. * Refute is stronger. It means disprove. * Neither should be used as a synonym for deny.### red and blue (p125)* Be careful in political context. American usage (red for Republican, blue for Democratic) is the opposite of almost everyone else’s, where red is left-wing.### redact (p125)* Redact is used to mean obscure, blot out, obliterate. Use it only in this legal/technical sense.### redolent (p125)* Redolent means smelling of, fragrant.### reduce, diminish, lessen, shrink (p125)* These words are not interchangeable. * Reduce is transitive, so must be followed by a noun. * Diminish and shrink can be transitive or intransitive. * So can lessen, though it is usually used transitively.### regime, regimen (p125)* A regime is a system of government. Use regimen for a course of diet and exercise.### relationship (p125)* Relationship is a long word often better replaced by relations.### relatively (p126)* Keep this for when you really mean in relation to something else.* If you just mean fairly, somewhat, say that.### report (p126)* Report on, not into.### reshuffle, resupply (p126)* Shuffle and supply will do.### revert (p126)* Revert means return to or go back to.* It does not mean come back to or get back to.### rock (p126)* In Britain a rock is too large to throw; protesters use stones.### same (p126)* Often superfluous. If your sentence contains on the same day that, try on the day that.### sanction (p126)* Do not use sanction as a verb to mean to impose sanctions on, because it traditionally means the reverse, to approve or bless.### scale, scalable (p126)* Avoid the jargony verb to scale and its adjective scalable to describe innovations, growing companies, development solutions and the like.### scotch, Scotch, Scottish, Scots (p127)* To scotch means to slash or disable, not to destroy.* The adjective Scotch may describe products like whisky, beef or eggs.* But the people are Scottish (adj) or Scots (n). Scots is also the name of the dialect of the region.### second-biggest, etc {Recognise I am using SPACY} (p127)* Second-biggest (third-oldest, etc): think before you write. Often not necessary.### secret, secretive (p127)* Places, meetings or documents can be secret, but only people or their methods can be secretive.### sensual, sensuous (p127)* Sensual means carnal or voluptuous. * Sensuous means pertaining to aesthetic appreciation, without any implication of lasciviousness.### sequestered, sequestrated (p127)* Sequestered means secluded. * Sequestrated means confiscated or made bankrupt.### shrug (p127)* This means to draw up the shoulders, so do not write She shrugged her shoulders.### silicon, silicone (p128)* Silicon is a common element used as a semiconductor to make electronic circuits smaller.* Silicone is a compound of silicon best known for its use in rubbery tools and artificial body parts.### simplistic (p128)* Prefer simple-minded, naive.### singular or plural? (p128)(for more information see page 132 of pdf)### skyrocketed (p128)* Rocketed is graphic enough. Avoid skyrocketing.### slither, sliver (p129)* As a noun, slither is scree. As a verb, it means slide. * If you mean a slice, the word you want is sliver.### smart (p129)* In British English, smart means well dressed, but smart sanctions, smart weapons, smartphones and all else of that nature are now with us for good.*  In fact, the word is now so over-used that if you merely mean clever or elegant (of people), say so.### socialise (p129)* The original British meaning of socialise was to make someone ready for society.* Americans, meanwhile, use socialise to mean getting together for a drink.### soft-spoken (p129) * If you have a quiet voice you are soft—not softly—spoken.### soi-disant (p129)* Soi-disant means self-styled, not so-called.### specific (p129)* Do not use in the singular to mean a detail; a specific is a medicine or remedy. But in the plural specifics are allowed.### stanch, staunch (p129)* Stanch the flow, though the man be staunch (stout).### stentorian, stertorous (p129)* Stentorian means loud. Stertorous means characterised by a snoring sound.### straight, strait (p130)* Straight means direct or uncurved; strait means narrow or tight.### strategy (p130)* Strategy, in military contexts, is distinguished from tactics (qv).* But in other contexts, especially business, strategy is much overused to dignify a mere plan.### -style (p130)* Avoid German-style supervisory boards, an EU-style rotating presidency, etc. Explain what you mean.### subcontract (p130)* If you engage someone to do something, you are contracting the job; only if the contractor then asks someone else to do it is the job subcontracted.### sustainable (p130)* A sustainable business is one that will not go bust. * A sustainable-energy business is trying to make energy from algae, etc. * Sustainable farming is trying not to exhaust the land in the process.### swath, swathe (p130)* A swath was originally the area covered by the reaper’s scythe, and by extension a broad sweep of land.* A swathe was a band of linen in which, for instance, a child may be wrapped.* The distinction between them is all but lost, so use swathe for both.### systemic, systematic (p131)* Systemic means relating to a system or body as a whole. * Systematic means according to system, or methodical.### table {as a transitive verb, please recognise I am using SPACY} (p131)* Avoid table as a transitive verb. * In Britain to table means to bring something forward for action. * In America it means the opposite, ie, to shelve.### tactics (p131)* Whether in battle or in politics, use for day-to-day techniques as opposed to strategy (qv), the long-term plan.### terrorist (p131)* Use these words with care. * Prefer terrorism to terror when you refer to the use of violence by non-state actors in an organised system of intimidation for political ends.* A terrorist is someone who resorts to such methods. Prefer suspected terrorists to terrorist suspects.* See more on page 131### testament, testimony (p131)* A testament is a will, and testimony is evidence.### the (p132)* The, known as the definite article, is to be used with discrimination.(for more information see page 136 of pdf)### throe, throw (p132)* Throes are spasms or pangs. * Throw is the act of casting or hurling through the air.### times (x) (p132)* Be careful. Avoid three times more than (higher than) x.* Instead, write gas prices are nine times what they were at this time last year.### tortuous, torturous (p133)* Tortuous means winding or twisting. * Torturous means causing torture.### tragedy, travesty (p133)* A travesty is (originally) a disguise or (today) an absurdly inadequate representation of someone or something, as in a travesty of justice.* A tragedy is a dramatically sad event.### transgender (p133)* On first mention, when appropriate, describe someone who has transitioned to being a man as a transgender man and one who has transitioned to being a woman a transgender woman. * On second mention, it is trans man and trans woman with a space.### transitive and intransitive verbs (p133)(more information on page 137 of pdf)#### _Replace:_He committed to doing better with He committed himself to doing betterThe stocks depleted by half with The stocks were depleted by halfHe delivers with He delivers what he promisesBonuses reduced this year with The board reduced bonuses this yearThe growth rate halved with The growth rate fell by halfThey agreed a new deal with They agreed on a new dealThe snow collapsed the roof with The roof collapsed under the snowWe want to grow the business with We want to make the business growStudents are protesting the cuts with Students are protesting against the cutsHe appealed the ruling with He appealed against the rulingThe speaker progressed the bill with The speaker advanced the billWage growth has lagged inflation with Wage growth has lagged behind inflationReserves totalled 10bn barrels with Reserves amounted to 10bn barrels The passengers disembarked the plane with The crew disembarked the passengers The government targeted aid at the poor with The government directed aid to the poor ### transpire (p134)* Transpire originally meant (for vapour) to pass through the walls of a surface, or (for an animal) to exhale.* Unless you mean the physical sense, use come to light or happen.### troika (p134)* Use it when it is unavoidable.* But avoid proliferation of this word when trio or threesome will do as well.### trooper, trouper (p134)* A trooper is a cavalry soldier. Some other non-cavalry units employ the rank of trooper as well.* But if prefixed by old, what you want is trouper, an old member of a theatrical company, or perhaps a good sort.### try to, try and (p134)* Try to choose try to over the chatty try and.### twinkle, twinkling (p134)* In the twinkling of an eye means in a very short time.### use and abuse (p135)* Use and abuse: much used and abused.### venal, venial (p135)* Venal means unprincipled, capable of being bribed, subject to corrupt influences, etc.* Venial is a forgivable class of sins in Christianity, ranked below the mortal sins.### venerable (p135)* Venerable means worthy of reverence. Do not use to mean merely old.### verbal, oral (p135)* Every agreement, except those of the nod-and-wink variety, is verbal. If you mean one that was not written down, describe it as oral.### via (p135)* The Latin via means by way of. So too in English.### -ward, -wards (p135)* When it forms part of an adjective, the suffix -ward should not take an s: a backward somersault, an eastward glance. * As part of an adverb, either - ward or -wards may be correct.### while (p136)* Not whilst.### wiggle, wriggle (p136) * By all means wiggle your hips, but if you need space in which to do it, or something else, that is wriggle room.### words ending -ee (p136)#### _Replace:_attendeesdrafteesenrolleesescapeesindicteesmentees retireesreturneesstandeestutees### worth (p137)* When the word worth follows a sum, measurement or quantity, an apostrophe is needed.* Note: $25m-worth is an exception.### wrack, rack, wreak, wrought (p137)* Wrack is an old noun meaning vengeance, punishment or wreckage (as in wrack and ruin). As a verb it can mean to devastate.* It has nothing to do with a rack, as in a frame on which you might put toast.* If you mean something like torture, you want racked.* To wreak is to bring about or inflict, as in damage, destruction or havoc. Its past tense and past participle is wreaked.## Chapter 7## Chapter 8## Chapter 9## Chapter 10